now the Philistines gathered their
armies together to battle and were
gathered at sokham which belongs to
Judah they encamped between SoCo and a
Zika in efest Danone and soul and the
men of Israel were gathered together and
they encamped in the Valley of Elah and
drew up in battle array against the
Philistines the Philistines stood on a
mountain on one side and Israel stood on
a mountain on the other side with a
valley between them and a champion went
out from the camp of the Philistines
named Goliath from Gath whose height was
six cubits and a span he had a bronze
helmet on his head and he was armed with
a coat of mail and the weight of the
coat was five thousand shekels of bronze
and he had bronze Armour on his legs and
a bronze javelin between his shoulders
now the staff of his spear was like a
Weaver's beef and his iron spear head
weighed six hundred shekels and a shield
bearer went before him that he stood
ride out to the armies of Israel and
said to them
why have you come out to line up for
battle am I not a Philistine and you the
servants of Sol choose a man for
yourselves and let him come down to me
if he is able to fight with me and kill
me that we will be your servants but if
I prevail against him and kill him then
you shall be our servants and serve us I
defy the armies of Israel this day give
me a man that we may fight together when
Saul and all Israel heard these words of
the Philistine they were dismayed and
greatly afraid now David was the son of
that efj recite of Bethlehem Judah whose
name was Jesse and who had eight sons
and the man was old advanced in years in
the days of Saul the three oldest sons
of Jesse had gone to follow soul to the
battle the names of his three sons who
went to the battle were Eliab the
firstborn next to him a Benedum and the
third Shama David was the youngest and
the three oldest followed Sol but David
occasionally went and returned from
Seoul to feed his father's sheep at
Bethlehem and the Philistine drew near
and presented himself forty days morning
and evening then Jesse said to his son
David take now for your brothers an
ephah of this dried grain and these ten
loaves and run to your brother's at the
camp and carry these 10 cheese's to the
captain of their thousand and see how
your brother's fare and bring back news
of them
now soul and they and all the men of
Israel were in the Valley of Elah
fighting with the Philistines
so David rose early in the morning left
the sheep with a keeper and took the
things and went as Jesse had commanded
him and he came to the camp as the army
was going out to the fight and shouting
for the battle for Israel and the
Philistines had drawn up in battle array
army against army and David left his
supplies in the hand of the supply
keeper ran to the army and came and
preaches his brothers then as he talked
with him there was the champion the
Philistine of Gath Goliath by name
coming up from the armies of the
Philistines and he spoke according to
the same words so David heard them and
all the men of Israel when they saw the
man fled from him and were dreadfully
afraid so the men of Israel said have
you seen this man who has come up surely
has come up to defy Israel and it shall
be that the man who kills him the King
will enrich with great riches will give
him his daughter and give his father's
house exemption from taxes in Israel
then David spoke to the man who stood by
him
what shall be done for the man who kills
this Philistine and takes away the
reproach from Israel for who is this
uncircumcised Philistine that he should
defy the armies of the Living God so
shall it be done for the man who kills
him now Eliab his oldest brother heard
when he spoke to the man and Elias anger
was aroused against David why did you
come down here and with whom have you
left those few sheep in the wilderness I
know your pride and the insolence of
your heart for you have come down to see
the battle what have I done now is there
not a cause when you turn from him
toward another and said the same thing
and these people answered him as the
first ones did now when the words which
David spoke were heard they reported
them to Saul and he sent for him then
David said to Saul let no man's heart
fail because of him your servant will go
and fight with this Philistine you are
not able to go against this Philistine
to fight with him you are a youth and he
a man of war from his youth your servant
used to keep his father's sheep and when
a lion or a bear came and took a lamb
out of the flock I went out after it and
struck it and delivered the lamb from
its mouth and when it arose against me
I caught it by its beard and struck and
killed him your servant has killed both
lion and bear and this uncircumcised
Philistine will be like one of them
seeing he has defied the armies of the
Living God the Lord who delivered me
from the paw of the lion and from the
paw of the bear he will deliver me from
the hand of this Philistine go
the Lord be with you so soul clothed
David with his armor and he put a bronze
helmet on his head he also clothed him
with a coat of name
David fastened his sword to his armor
and tried to walk for he had not tested
them and David said to Saul I cannot
walk with these for I have not tested
them so David took them off then he took
his staff in his hand and he chose for
himself five smooth stones from the
brook and he put them in a shepherd's
bag in a pouch which he had and his
sling was in his hand and he drew near
to the Philistine so the Philistine came
and began drawing near to David the man
who bore the shield went before him and
when the Philistines looked about and
saw David he disdained him for he was
only a youth ready and good-looking am i
a dog that you've come to me with sticks
and the Philistine cursed David by his
gods come to me and I will give your
flesh to the birds of the air and the
beasts of the field you come to me with
a sword with a spear and with a javelin
but I come to you in the name of the
Lord of hosts the god of the armies of
Israel whom you have defied this day the
Lord will deliver you into my hand and I
will strike and take your head
and this day I will give the carcasses
of the camp of the Philistines to the
birds of the air and the wild beasts of
the earth that all the Earth may know
that there is a God in Israel that all
this assembly shall know that the Lord
does not save with sword and spear for
the battle is the Lord's and He will
give you into our hands so it was when
the Philistine arose and came and drew
near to meet David but David Herod and
ran toward the army to meet the
Philistine and David put his hand in his
bag and took out a stone and he slung it
and struck the Philistine in his
forehead so that the stone sank into his
forehead
and he fell on his face to the air so
David prevailed over the Philistine with
a sling and a stone and struck the
Philistine and killed but there was no
sword in the hand of David therefore
David ran and stood over the Philistine
took his sword and threw it out of its
sheath and killed him and cut off his
head with it when the Philistines saw
that their champion was dead they fled
now the man of Israel and Judah arose
and shouted and pursued the Philistines
as far as the entrance of the valley and
to the gates of Ekron and were wounded
over Philistines FEV along the road to
share and even as far as Gath than a
current then the children of Israel
returned from chasing the Philistines
and they plundered their tents and David
took the head of the Philistine and
brought it to Jerusalem but he put his
armor in his tent
when Saul saw David going out against
the Philistine he said to Abner the
commander of the army labna whose son is
this youth as your soul lives o King I
do not know inquire whose son this young
man is then as David returned from the
slaughter of the Philistine Abner took
him and brought him before soul with the
head of the Philistine in his hand and
soul said to him whose son are you young
men I am the son of your servant Jesse
the Bethlehem I